App channel tutorial (#71)
hyperledger-labs/perun-doc: source/go-perun/app_tutorial/client.rst

.. _app_client:

Client
======
In this section, we describe the app channel client that is used for opening a channel with the Tic Tac Toe app instantiated.
Much of the app channel client is similar to the :ref:`payment channel client <payment_client>`, and we will reuse some of the code here. The code will be placed in package ``client``.

.. code-block:: go

    package client

Constructor
-----------
The main part of our payment channel client is placed in ``client/client.go``.
Our client is of type ``AppClient``, which is similar to the ``PaymentClient``.
The only additional parameters here are ``stake`` and ``app``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../perun-examples/app-channel/client/client.go
    :emphasize-lines: 6,7

>     :caption: `👇 This code on GitHub. <https://github.com/perun-network/perun-examples/blob/689b8cdfef8ef8fb527723d52e6ce36dfe1b661c/app-channel/client/client.go#L41>`__

Author: For captions two underscores are required. Otherwise:
` WARNING: Invalid caption: /Users/lr/-/source/go-perun/app_tutorial/client.rst:4: (WARNING/2) Duplicate explicit target name: "👇 this code on github.".
`

        }

As in the payment channel example, we create the accept message, send it, and start the on-chain watcher.

.. code-block:: go

        // Create a channel accept message and send it.
        accept := lcp.Accept(
            c.account,                // The account we use in the channel.
            client.WithRandomNonce(), // Our share of the channel nonce.
        )
        ch, err := r.Accept(context.TODO(), accept)
        if err != nil {
            fmt.Printf("Error accepting channel proposal: %v\n", err)
            return
        }

        // Start the on-chain event watcher. It automatically handles disputes.
        c.startWatching(ch)

        c.channels <- newAppChannel(ch)
    }

.. _app_client_channel:

App channel
-----------

We implement the type ``AppChannel`` that wraps a Perun channel and provides convenient functions to interact with the app channel.
We put this functionality in ``client/channel.go``.

.. code-block:: go

    type AppChannel struct {
        ch *client.Channel
    }

.. _app_client_channel_set:

Set
...
We create ``Set``, which expects ``x`` and ``y`` that indicate where the client wants to put its symbol on the grid.

> We use ``channel.UpdateBy`` for conveniently proposing our desired update to the channel's ``state``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use ``channel.UpdateBy`` for proposing our desired update to the channel's ``state``.
```

Try to omit words such as "conveniently", "easily" when you describe something that can be done by the reader. The reader can have its own opinion about whether its convenient or not, and it doesn't make it more convenient just because you name it.

With ``state.App``, we fetch the app that identifies the channel's application and check if it is of the expected type.
Then we call ``TicTacToeApp.Set``, which will manipulate ``state.Data`` to include the desired turn for us.
``state.Data`` holds all app-specific data, reflecting our Tic-Tac-Toe game's current game state.

> We will go into more detail about this at :ref:`a later stage <app_set>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will go into more detail about this in the :ref:`app description <app_set>`.
```

Try to avoid relative references like "later" or "earlier", as they assume a certain structure. Better use absolute references.

.. code-block:: go

    func (g *AppChannel) Set(x, y int) {
        err := g.ch.UpdateBy(context.TODO(), func(state *channel.State) error {
            app, ok := state.App.(*app.TicTacToeApp)
            if !ok {
                return fmt.Errorf("invalid app type: %T", app)
            }

            return app.Set(state, x, y, g.ch.Idx())
        })
        if err != nil {
            panic(err) // We panic on error to keep the code simple.
        }
    }

Handling Update
...............
We don't need to do much here in the app channel case.

> Basically, we can accept every update we receive because the Perun app-channel automatically checks that the transition is valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basically, we can accept every update we receive because the app's :ref:`valid transition function <app_validate_transition>` already ensures that the transition is valid.
```
It's not Perun's app channel. It's the valid transition logic we defined.

> What a "valid transition" is will be implemented at :ref:`a later stage of this tutorial <app_validate_transition>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Again, avoid relative references.

.. note::

>     We do not make any requirements to balance changes here because our client must accept if it loses the game.

Reviewer: I don't get this note. Of course we need to ensure that the balances say the same!?
